Version 3.1 Release Notes
March 11, 2025

A couple of things involving wily wars performance and presentation have been fixed.

Patch:
The Energy Balancer from future titles has been added to the base patch. When you pick up weapon energy with no weapon selected, it will fill the weapon with the lowest energy. There is a new option to disable this feature when creating a seed.

For Megaman 3, the palettes for the weapon icons in the weapon menu have been fixed. No more blue Rush. However, there is a side effect where the lives and e tank icons will change to match the palette in the menu on the first page.

Yellow Devil MK-II fight slowdown has been fixed.

Gemini Laser shoots 3 projectiles as a single shot instead of 4 now. This will improve performance in a lot of situations.

Randomizer:
Random damage from bosses did not incorporate random wily stages and only did MM2 and MM3 bosses. Now it has been changed to where these values are assigned regardless of the Wily Stages chosen and also incorporated additional values for the MM1 bosses if they are fought in the Wily Stage.

Previously these values were weighted based on the boss, but it is no longer taking that into consideration. Collision and weapon damage will be picked from a value between 1 and 8. Robot Masters collision and weapon damage, MM1 Robot Masters encountered in Wily Stages, and Doc Robot Collision damage will instead pick between 1 and 6 damage.

Gutsman and his stage are now part of the pool to be selected from.

Logic:

This script will now generate a spoiler log that will be much more easy to read and understand than the spoiler log the randomizer program provides. This log will provide details on:

What options you chose
Stages you will be playing
Bosses encountered and weapons acquired if random
Which stage has the utility items
Which weapons break walls or freeze fire towers
Robot Master Weaknesses and Weakness Chain
Who is affected by Time Stopper, if relevant
Doc Robot Locations and Weaknesses
Which Wily Stages you will be playing, if random
Wily Stage Boss Weaknesses
How much ammo your weapons consume, if random
How much damage you take from bosses, if random

If the script fails, it will produce an error log of the issue. If the spoiler log fails to finish, it will log the error in the log, but you will still be able to play the seed.

Bug Fixes:

If Magnetman was fought in Needleman's arena, his Magnet Missiles would have missed Megaman. They have been adjusted to actually reach Megaman.

If Bubbleman was fought in Flashman's arena, the bubbles would not reach Megaman. 

The primary weakness chain for bosses could be generated to have separate chains that don't interact with each other. Ex: Flashman is weak to Metalman, Metalman is weak to Snakeman, and Snakeman is weak to Flashman. The rest of the bosses would have weapons that don't interact with this chain. There are now checks to ensure there is only one continuous weakness chain.

Gamma 1st Phase was supposed to take 3 damage from weakness weapons. Instead it took the same amount of damage as the previous boss.

Alien used to sometimes only have 2 HP when starting the fight. 

MM3 Wily 4 capsule bosses sometimes did not get placed correctly, leaving the default MM3 bosses instead of the random bosses fought during the game.

When selecting weaknesses, sometimes Wily Bosses could have Time Stopper as their only weakness when the Time Stopper does nothing.
