Hello, and thank you for playing my Megaman: The Wily Wars randomizer.

##PLEASE update your SRM.py files(srm.py, classes.py, and gatelib.py) if you haven't downloaded them prior to the release of version 2.0##

You can even use the updater.py script provided to make sure you have the latest files.

Currently the default values it randomizes are:
Stages

Doc Robot locations

Weaknesses

The stage that gives you the Rush Items or MM2 Items

If you would receive the Time Stopper weapon, who is affected by it. Currently it would be one random boss and one random Doc Robot.

Which weapon can break the walls normally broken by Crash Bomber or Hard Knuckle.
	Hyper Bomb and Time Stopper are the only two weapons incapable of breaking the crash/hard walls.

Now with v2.0, MM2 can be randomized instead.

Just check the Megaman 2 Mode in the randomizer, run the Logic script,(see instructions below) and select Megaman 2 from the menu instead of Megaman 3. You can slide only in Megaman 3 stages. Also, if you have the Time Stopper, two bosses that aren't in the Wily Stages are affected by it.

Version 2.5 added the ability to Randomize Wily Stages. Use your buster to break Guts Blocks and freeze the Fire Pillars.

- How to use the Randomizer:

You will need to install Python in order to run these .py scripts.

1. Apply the .IPS patch to a Megaman: The Wily Wars European ROM. It can be either .bin or .md file types

Use Lunar IPS or another ips patching program to apply the patch.

If you want to keep a clean file, make a copy of the ROM file you want to apply the patch to.

If you aren't sure which ROM file you have, make sure it matches this MD5 checksum:
BB891AEC8A7DFE6164033F57AF2025BD

2. Run the srm.py file. This will bring up a window of a ROM file to load, as well as three different options to take:
Random Bosses
Random Weapons
Random Bosses and Weapons

Additionally it will also have 4 different modes of randomization:
Random Buster Damage
Random Damage from Bosses
Random Weapon Ammo Usage
Randomize Wily Stages

If none of these are checked, it will assume the default randomization method as described in the beginning.

Use the program to browse to the file you just patched. When ready, click Randomize!

3. The randomizer will create a new folder with the Randomized ROM and a text file of the values randomized.

Open the Logic.py file and browse to that ROM file it generated.

If everything goes correctly, a message will appear stating it's ready. Please enjoy playing the randomizer.

Special Thanks:
Runex and Matrixz for their notes about Wily Wars
MottZilla for the IPS patch released roughly 12 years ago
Gateguy for creating the Simple Randomizer Maker
Everyone in the discord server for joining and leaving their thoughts about the randomizer, especially those providing bug reports.